# Random Password Generator Description

## To create this password generator I only edited the javascript file.  The first thing I did was create 4 different arrays for the different character types (lowerCase, upperCase, numbers,and specialCharacters).  I wrote each variable as a string and turned them into arrays using the split() method.  Next I created a function called generatePassword().  Aside from the code already included in the assignment all of my code is nested inside of this function. The first part of the code contains a prompt, four confirms, and several different conditionals.  The prompt appears first.  It asks how long the user would like their password to be and tells the user the lenght criteria.  There are three alerts that follow the prompt depending on what the user inputs.  These alerts are displayed using if and else if conditionals.  If the users input meets the correct criteria of the prompt and else conditional displays four confirms that let the user choose which types of characters they would like to include in their password.  If the user doesn't confirm at least one character they are alerted with a message telling them to choose at least one character.  This is done by nesting an alert and the same four confirms inside a while loop.  I chose to do a while loop here so if the user didnt select any character types they would not have to start back over at the intial prompt to generate their password.  Next I created an array called passwordCharacters that combines all confirmed character type arrays into one using the concat() method.  This was acheived using if statements that add the different character type arrays to the new array if they were confirmed true by the user.  Next I created a variable called password.  Next I created a for loop.  It's in this for loop that password generation occurs.  The initial expression of the for loop sets the value of the variable "i" to zero,  the condition says execute if the value of "i" is less than the value of the passwordLength variable, and the increment expression sets the increment to +1.  Inside the bloack statement portion of the for loop I created a variable called generatedCharacters.  This variables value is calculated by using the passwordCharacters array, a math.random() function with a math.floor to keep the value in whole numbers, and a paswordCharacters.lenght to pull from the entire content of the password characters array. Next I declared the password variable is equal to password + generatedCharacters and this gives me the password that is printed to the text area.  After a return statement and the password variable my portion of the code is conclued.  The password is printed to the text area by code that was included with the project by the bootcamp.  There is a generateBtn variable that links to the generate id selector, a write password function and an event listener that executes the code when the generate button is pressed.